Known bugs in Phobos version 3.2.0 and 3.2.2:
      - Output of masked sequence does not work.
        Phobos writes nonsense until hard drive is full.

      - The GUI version of Phobos could crash on linux machines.


Known bugs in Phobos version 3.2.4:
      - Output of masked sequence does not work.
        Phobos writes nonsense until hard drive is full.


Known bugs in Phobos version 3.2.5:
      - In an imperfect search with the dontRemoveMostlyOverlapping
		option in effect, Phobos sometimes reported - among the repeats
		that are mostly overlapped by a dominant repeat - repeats with
		a composite unit of the form ACACAC. The dominant repeats were not
		effected. Without the dontRemoveMostlyOverlapping option specified,
		no error occurred.
      - Bug which could lead to faulty output:
        In the GUI (graphical user interface) version of Phobos only the
        first search after program start was guaranteed to produce a correct
		output.
		If after the first search (and without restarting the program)
		the minimum score or length parameters or the minimum or maximum unit
		size were changed, they are not considered properly, even though the
		output file lists the correct search parameters. Since multiple searches
		without program restart are only possible in the GUI version of Phobos
		and not in the CL version, the CL version is not effected by this bug.

Known bugs in Phobos version 3.2.6:
      - Bug which could lead to a faulty output of the GUI version of Phobos:
        In the GUI (graphical user interface) version of Phobos only the
        first search after program start was guaranteed to produce a correct
		output.
		If after the first search (and without restarting the program)
		the minimum score or length parameters or the minimum or maximum unit
		size were changed, they are not considered properly in any successive
		search, even though the output file lists the correct search parameters.
		Since multiple searches without program restart are only possible in
		the GUI version of Phobos and not in the CL version, the CL version is
		not effected by this bug.

      - On Mac OS X Leopard, the GUI version of Phobos was broken. It seems
        that in Leopard GUI programs only work properly if they are embedded
		into an application bundle.

Known bugs in Phobos version 3.3.2b and 3.3.2c:
  	  - In very rare cases Phobos could crash. The problem occurred when sorting
        the internal list of mismatches and gaps of a repeat since the
		comparison operator did not meet the requirements of a strict weak
		ordering.
  		The rare crashes where only observed when searching for tandem
		repeats with a unit size above 30 bp and only if several closely
		located groups of successive gaps where found in the alignment.

Known bugs in Phobos version 3.3.10:
	  - The handling of gaps and the "*" in phobos character has lead to an
	    unexpected behaviour.
	    Users of the Phobos-Geneious plugin were not effected by this problem!!
	    Up to this version, Phobos simply ignored gaps
	    and "*" characters in the input sequence. However, this has an unwanted
	    side effect: Since Phobos did not read these characters, the sequence coordinates
	    of repeats in Phobos differed from the coordinates in the original input sequence.
	    Now Phobos reported repeats with respect to the sequence in memory
	    (without the gaps and "*"s), with the effect that they will differ in the presence
	    of gaps or "*"s from the sequence coordinates in the input sequence. Obviously the
	    user will expect sequence positions of repeats to be reported with respect to the
	    input sequence including gaps and "*"s.
	    If no gaps or "*" characters are present in the sequence, this bug does not occur.
	    Since gaps and "*" characters are rare in input sequences to Phobos, this bug
	    has not been discovered earlier.
	    This bug affected version 3.3.10 and all earlier versions. It has been fixed in version
	    3.3.11.
	    
	  - In the GUI version of Phobos, the "Treat N's as missense instead of neutral" checkbox
	    was not reset when pressing the "Reset parameters" button.


Known bugs in Phobos version 3.3.11
      - When reading fasta sequences, Phobos could crash under specific circumstances:
      	If two consecutive sequence names ended by spaces and if the second sequence
      	name was one character longer than the former, Phobos could crash.
      	I want to thank Dr. Eli Meyer from the University of Texas at Austin for reporting
      	this error. This error existed in all Phobos versions since version 3.3.5


Known bugs in Phobos version 3.3.12
      - No bugs are known by September, 2010.


Known minor accuracy issues of Phobos:
--------------------------------------
Phobos is a highly accurate tandem repeat search tool. For shorter repeat units
it is more accurate than any other tool I know about. For longer repeat units
the Tandem Repeat Finder program by G. Benson is mostly more accurate than Phobos.  

However, there are very few cases where Phobos
does not find the optimal repeat.

	The source of this problem is the following:
	Some repeats cannot be aligned unambiguously
	to the perfect repeat counterpart:

	Example:

	Alignment 1:
	------------

	ACACGTACACGTAC--GTACACGTACACGT
	||||||||||||||  ||||||||||||||
	ACACGTACACGTACACGTACACGTACACGT 

	Alignment 2:
	------------

	ACACGTACACGT--ACGTACACGTACACGT
	||||||||||||  ||||||||||||||||
	ACACGTACACGTACACGTACACGTACACGT 

	The decision which of the two alignments is chosen can indeed have
	consequences on the outcome of the tandem repeat search.
	In the current version, Phobos tries to avoid the described problem
	by "running the alignment procedure" in both directions for each repeat,
	which unfortunately does not always solve the problem.


	First possible consequence:
	---------------------------
	Depending on where the gap is placed, Phobos might favour a
	longer or shorter alignment, i.e. a longer or shorter repeat.
	If the gap has been inserted in the "more right" position, a
	higher score might be reached if the repeat is trimmed behind
	the gap. If the gap is positioned further left, the score to
	the right might be sufficiently high to let Phobos extend the
	repeat beyond the gap.
	Phobos indeed tries to avoid this problem by aligning a repeat
	from both directions, but this strategy does not solve the
	problem in all possible cases. What remains is a minor dependence
	of the search results on the search direction in rare cases. 
  

	Second possible consequence:
	----------------------------
     	In an imperfect search, if Phobos comes across a repeat in which
	all units are pairwise different (which only occurs if the repeat
	unit is sufficiently long), Phobos sometimes chooses a suboptimal
	consensus repeat unit among all these different units.
	This indeed seems to occur only if Phobos chose the "wrong" of two
	or more equally good alignments, causing it to favour the wrong unit
	in a subsequent decision. The situation is quite complex and
	cannot be completely understood without understanding the complete
	Phobos search algorithm.
	Indeed, if at least two - not necessarily neighbouring units - are
	identical and if these are also the dominant unit, no problems have
	been reported that Phobos does not identify this dominant repeat unit.

	The described effects are very special cases and affect only a small
	proportion of repeats.


